<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_adding_your_education">
    <title>Adding Your education</title>
    <shortdesc>It’s common to include your education on your resume, especially if you are applying
        to a job that requires a degree. If you’re a few years into your career, your resume’s
        education section can be minimized at the bottom of your resume. </shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>Unless you’re applying in a career that puts extra emphasis on education (like
                academia, law, or medicine), most job seekers can get away with providing only the
                following information on their resume:<ul id="ul_hg2_jds_1pb">
                    <li>Name of Institution</li>
                    <li>Degree</li>
                    <li>School Location</li>
                    <li>Years Attended</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>If you’ve recently graduated college, your education section goes above your work
                experience and includes more detail. Skills developed in school are real skills that
                have value in the professional world. Recent grads can include relevant coursework,
                societies, organizations, and extracurriculars that strengthen their candidacy.</p>
            <p>Awards, Accolades, and Certifications can be embedded in the work experience and
                skills sections of your resume. However, if you would like to highlight them, they
                could warrant a section of their own. Either way, relevant certifications and honors
                will increase your credibility.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Format is key</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>The reverse chronological format is the best choice for most education
                        sections. Start with your recent academic achievement. College students
                        pursuing a degree should write “anticipated completion date.”</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Include keywords</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Write about your academic credentials using specific keywords listed in the
                        job description. Hiring managers and applicant tracking system software will
                        discard resumes that lack them.</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Avoid aging yourself</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Your writing shouldn’t immediately show your age. Just include the type of
                        degree and university. Your GPA is not relevant. If you’ve attended several
                        schools, focus on education that is pertinent to the job.</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Include your honors</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Write about earned honors, such as summa cum laude, or leadership roles. Many
                        recruiters value this type of experience over the specifics of your degree.
                        This is important for recent college graduates and high students with little
                        work experience.</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Pay attention to required credentials</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Include required credentials in writing of your resume education section.
                        Many industries, such as finance, healthcare, social work, and IT, require
                        specific education and certifications.</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Industry dictates section placement</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>If you seek employment in education, science, or law, place your resume
                        education section near the top of the page. Remember to begin with your
                        highest degree attained.</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Advanced degrees require more information.</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>When writing about a doctoral degree, include the name of your academic
                        advisor, dissertation subject, and the date it was published that name of
                        the scholarly journal.</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>No degree, mention training</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>If you don’t have a degree, write about your continued learning, special
                        training or certifications. For example, if you’ve completed an
                        apprenticeship relevant to the job title, place this information in your
                        resume education section.</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Never embellish</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Never embellish the writing in your resume education section. A hiring
                        manager may verify your credentials, so be honest about colleges attended,
                        academic achievements, training, and certifications.</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>No flippant writing</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Skip the cutesy, flippant writing workarounds, such as “recent graduate from
                        the school of life.” If you don’t have formal schooling to include, beef up
                        your skills and work history section.</p>
                    <note id="note_bhn_dfs_1pb">
                        <p>Adding a study abroad semester or year to your resume can show employers
                            that you’re a go-getter. This information doesn’t need to take up much
                            space, and should be included in the education section as well.</p>
                        <p>The correct place to put study abroad on your resume is just below the
                            university you graduated from. </p>
                    </note>
                </info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
