<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_including_your_hobbies_and_interests">
    <title>Including Your hobbies and interests</title>
    <shortdesc>Your hobbies and interest are an entirely optional section and should only be added
        if they are somehow relevant to the jobs or companies you are applying to.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>Generally speaking, they work best for candidates with no experience, to help
                demonstrate skills outside of the workplace.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Which hobbies to add to your CV</cmd>
                <info>
                    <ul id="ul_l1q_qfs_1pb">
                        <li><b>Volunteering </b>– Any volunteer work is normally a great addition to
                            your CV, especially if t’s for a good cause, or it directly relates to
                            your target roles. Either way there should be plenty of work-related
                            skills you can highlight from volunteer work.</li>
                        <li><b>Writing </b>– Writing is a great communicative skill that is required
                            in plenty of jobs, so if you have any personal writing hobbies (such as
                            a blog or writing classes) then it can be worth mentioning them.</li>
                        <li><b>Sports </b>– Involvement in a fairly serious sports team or
                            individual sport involves dedication, teamwork, and shows you have the
                            ability to commit yourself to a cause.</li>
                        <li><b>Strategy games </b>– If you play in a chess league or similar
                            equivalent, this can be a good way of showing recruiters that you are
                            bright and tactful.</li>
                        <li><b>Charity and events </b>– If you have any involvement in the
                            organising and planning of events in your spare time, it should
                            definitely get a mention in your CV. Maybe you help to run an
                            after-school club, or support the promoting of a local music event –
                            lots of workplace skills can be drawn out of event planning
                            hobbies.</li>
                        <li><b>Travel </b>– Some employers really love to see travel on a CV,
                            especially the more modern trendy employers like Google and Facebook.
                            Travel involve lots of planning, bravado, and teaches you a lot about
                            different cultures and lifestyles.</li>
                        <li><b>Practical work </b>– This one applies mainly to candidates applying
                            to engineering or trade roles, but if you have any hobbies that involve
                            building or fixing things, it can be a great way to prove your ingenuity
                            and technical know-how.</li>
                    </ul>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Which hobbies to keep out of your CV</cmd>
                <info>
                    <ul id="ul_w2v_hgs_1pb">
                        <li><b>Common pastimes</b> – Common pastimes are essentially hobbies that
                            99% of the population take part in. Things like eating out, going to the
                            cinema, reading or socialising. These hobbies will not set you apart
                            from other candidates, so there’s no need to waste space on your CV by
                            writing about them.</li>
                        <li><b>Sensitive subjects</b> – If you have hobbies that involve any
                            subjects that could be considered sensitive (topics such as politics or
                            religion) then I would advise leaving them out to be safe and ensure you
                            don’t encounter any discrimination.</li>
                        <li><b>Passive hobbies</b> – Hobbies such as supporting a football team or
                            watching television don’t require much input from you personally, so
                            they will not impress employers.</li>
                    </ul>
                </info>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <postreq id="postreq_wms_lgs_1pb">
            <p>Interests are optional and in many cases, they won’t make a huge difference – but if
                you feel that they could make you appear more suitable and benefit your application,
                then you should include them.</p>
        </postreq>
    </taskbody>
</task>
