<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_listing_relevant_skills">
    <title>Listing relevant skills</title>
    <shortdesc>It’s important to incorporate important skills throughout your entire resume,
        beginning with your headline which should, when possible, include the most important
        keyword, the job title. You can also list skills in a dedicated skills section of your
        resume if using a hybrid format.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>Whether you’re trying to catch a recruiter’s eye or rise to the top of an applicant
                tracking system’s rankings, seeding your resume with relevant resume keywords should
                be a top priority. One simple way to do this is through a resume skills section.</p>
            <p>A designated skills list is an optional resume section and not part of a traditional
                resume format. Find a good hybrid/combination or functional resume template if you
                want a skills section on your resume.</p>
            <p><b>Here are four ways to show off what you can do with a resume skills
                section.</b></p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Create a simple bullet list resume skills section</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>The most straight-forward way is to make a list immediately following your
                        contact information and summary statement. </p>
                    <p>Hitting all the top job requirements with your skills list will make a
                        recruiter’s ears perk up. It will also help you rank highly for a keyword
                        search within an applicant tracking system. It’s an attention-getter, but
                        don’t stop there. Just because you list these job skills on your resume
                        doesn’t mean a corporate recruiter will believe you.</p>
                    <p>If you use this type of resume skills section, be sure to add context for
                        every skill elsewhere in your work experience. If a recruiter is excited by
                        “Product Adoption” in your skills section, the first thing they’ll do is
                        skim your work experience to figure out when, how, and how much you used
                        that skill.</p>
                    <p>The same goes for resume skills sections with rating systems. Giving yourself
                        a 5/5 or “expert” rating on a skill doesn’t matter if that expertise isn’t
                        communicated in other ways. Context is everything.</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Create a skills list with expanded bullets</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>One way to add context is by lengthening. </p>
                    <p><b>For example: </b>CRM – 4+ years leveraging Salesforce on a daily basis.
                        Earned Salesforce Certification in January 2017. Also have experience with
                        Pipedrive (1 year) and Highrise (6 months).This approach is more impactful
                        than only listing the skills, however it takes up more room at the top of
                        your resume. Consider trimming down your bullet list to your most important
                        four or five skills when using this method. Then, work your remaining skills
                        into your work experience. the bullet points. </p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>List additional skills after each job</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>If you’d like to stay closer to a reverse-chronological resume format,
                        consider adding shorter skill lists to each work experience section.</p>
                </info>
                <info>
                    <p>Fitting all the skills into the bigger text block might make it awkward for
                        the recruiter to read, but removing them all would make the descriptions
                        overly vague. By working some hard skills right into the work experience and
                        listing others afterwards, you can make your experience easier to read while
                        still covering all your bases.</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Break resume skills sections into categories</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>If you’re applying for a role requiring a broad skillset and your work
                        history lends itself to it, consider categorizing your skills into multiple
                        lists.</p>
                    <p>This often works best for people transitioning into management roles where
                        they need to prove that they can work with people from multiple
                        disciplines.</p>
                </info>
                <info>
                    <p>The Digital Marketing list would include specifics like search engine
                        optimization, pay per click advertising, affiliate marketing, and so on.</p>
                </info>
                <info>
                    <p>This approach can also be used to show off both technical know-how and softer
                        leadership skills. Some even advocate for having a dedicated soft skills
                        section on your resume.</p>
                    <p>You can also combine bullet points into a single section to better categorize
                        skills.</p>
                    <p><b> For example:</b></p>
                    <ul id="ul_mmc_vbs_1pb">
                        <li>Software development (php, Javascript, CSS, HTML, Ruby)</li>
                        <li>Data Science (R, SQL, MySQL, Excel, Modeling)</li>
                        <li>Project Management (Agile, Scrum, Cost Management)</li>
                    </ul>
                </info>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <postreq id="postreq_jym_ybs_1pb">
            <p>Desired soft skills vary by role, but here are 10 soft skills recruiters love to see:
                    <b>Adaptability. Communication. Creativity. Customer Service. Leadership.
                    Organization. Problem Solving. Teamwork. Time Management. Work Ethic.</b></p>
        </postreq>
    </taskbody>
</task>
