<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE glossgroup PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Glossary Group//EN" "glossgroup.dtd">
<glossgroup id="duck_equipment">
    <title>CV glossary</title>
    <glossentry id="binoculars">
        <glossterm>Chronological CV</glossterm>
        <glossdef>
            <p>It’s the CV that organizes information chronologically,starting with the oldest
                achievements and ending with the most recent ones.</p>
        </glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="duck_bait">
        <glossterm>Combination or mixed CV</glossterm>
        <glossdef>
            <p>It’s the kind of CV that combines parts of the chronological CV and the functional
                one. It always starts with the functional format, organizing information by areas or
                topics, to continue with organization according to time-dates.</p>
        </glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="duck_call">
        <glossterm>Cover letter or application letter</glossterm>
        <glossdef>It’s a document that usually goes with the CV where, in a much more personal way,
            the candidate’s skills are explained for a particular job position.</glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="spotting_scope">
        <glossterm>Curriculum Vitae</glossterm>
        <glossdef>
            <p>It’s a document that summarizes the working experience, education and skills of a
                candidate for a job search.</p>
        </glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="glossentry_x2h_nlr_1pb">
        <glossterm>Functional CV</glossterm>
        <glossdef>
            <p>It’s the CV that organizes information by topics or areas instead of doing it
                chronologically. A quick glimpse of the most important information.</p>
        </glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="glossentry_gjn_nlr_1pb">
        <glossterm>Human resources</glossterm>
        <glossdef>
            <p>A term used in reference to the organisation and management of people within an
                organisation.</p>
        </glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="glossentry_ugs_nlr_1pb">
        <glossterm>Letter of recommendation</glossterm>
        <glossdef>
            <p>Document where a person, most of the time a former boss, names the candidate’s skills
                and mentions he or she is ideal for the job offer. It doesn’t usually go with the
                CV.</p>
        </glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="glossentry_cyw_nlr_1pb">
        <glossterm>Resume</glossterm>
        <glossdef>
            <p>Usually its meaning is the same as the CV (resume in the US, CV in the UK) but with
                some differences.</p>
        </glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="glossentry_gw1_4lr_1pb">
        <glossterm>Video resume – Video CV</glossterm>
        <glossdef>
            <p>It’s a type of CV that’s on the increase, particularly in English-speaking countries.
                It consists in a video recording where the candidate explains his or her skills for
                a job position in particular.</p>
        </glossdef>
    </glossentry>
    <glossentry id="glossentry_kxh_4lr_1pb">
        <glossterm>Web CV</glossterm>
        <glossdef>
            <p> It’s a personal website, designed as a CV, including the candidate’s skills and
                achievements. Being on the internet, any company or employer in the world can have
                access to it.</p>
        </glossdef>
    </glossentry>
</glossgroup>
