<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="r_useful_tips">
    <title>Useful Tips</title>
    <shortdesc>To ensure your CV makes a positive impact on recruiters, try to avoid the following
        mistakes.</shortdesc>
    <refbody>
        <section id="section_mkl_ths_1pb">
            <title>Avoid cliché phrases </title>
        </section>
        <example id="example_l2l_13s_1pb">
            <ul id="ul_kgf_jhs_1pb">
                <li>I am a hardworking team-player</li>
                <li>I always go the extra mile</li>
                <li>I am a strong communicator</li>
                <li>I think outside the box</li>
            </ul>
            <p>These phrases do not impress employers.</p>
            <p>The problem with these cliché phrases is that they are vague, overused and don’t tell
                recruiters anything specific about you.</p>
            <p>Focus on describing your industry specific skills, experience and achievements,
                because they are what recruiters will be looking for.</p>
        </example>
        <section id="section_rlw_rhs_1pb">
            <title>Dealing with gaps in employment</title>
            <p>Long periods of unemployment can be off-putting for employers because it simply
                appears as though you have not been doing anything during that period – unless you
                state otherwise.</p>
            <p>So, if you have any periods of unemployment that lasted over a month or so, then try
                to fill them with constructive activities to make yourself look proactive and
                positive. For example:<ul id="ul_f2g_33s_1pb">
                    <li><b>Studying</b> – With details of qualifications gained or working
                        towards</li>
                    <li><b>Travel</b> – Great to demonstrate planning, organisation and people
                        skills</li>
                    <li><b>Volunteer roles or personal projects</b> – e.g. caring for a family
                        member, working for a community initiative</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>If you’ve had time out for personal reasons such as a serious illness, then don’t be
                worried about including it on your CV – employers should not discriminate against
                youfor it. Just keep the detail light and focus on highlighting your value
                throughout the rest of your CV.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_ndz_43s_1pb">
            <title>CV Language</title>
            <p>The language used in your CV should be professional, persuasive, descriptive and
                grammatically perfect throughout.</p>
            <p>It should read like a sales brochure for a luxury product; leaving the reader
                desperate to call you, just in case they miss out on the opportunity of hiring
                you.</p>
            <p>The language used in your CV gives recruiters an insight into your written
                communication skills and your professionalism, so make it count.</p>
            <p>Avoid using basic language, because it makes you look like a basic candidate, when
                you need to look outstanding.</p>
            <note id="note_bhv_53s_1pb">
                <p>If you struggle to write professionally or English isn’t your first language, I
                    would recommend using a free grammar checking tool like <xref
                        href="https://grammarly.go2cloud.org/aff_c?offer_id=10&amp;aff_id=14555"
                        format="html" scope="external">Grammarly</xref> – It highlights your
                    mistakes and provides suggestions for corrections.</p>
            </note>
        </section>
    </refbody>
</reference>
